Okay. Any time you want to stop or do anything, you
just, you just holler at me. Oh, okay. Like you say,
we can get it to heck out of the state. We're not
worried about that. Okay. No, well, he felt that
since Garwood was such a small little town, that we
would probably all get a better education if we
were sent away to school, and I think my mother
concurred once she was, you know, in the small
little town.
What was her reaction whenever you left to go off to
go to school? Um,
just a typical mom sending her child off to school.
I mean, she was okay with it, and we were okay with
it. So, um, every now and then we'd cry because when
we went to St. Mary's Hall and when Paul went to, um,
San Marcos Baptist Academy we were like in the
seventh and eighth grade so we were pretty young so
there were tears at that point in time but they were
both pretty strong and just said you know this is
important and you need to do this and we'd get over
it we're okay today it was probably very good for
you right right did he spend much time counseling
you about things or Yes, both of them did, but he was
particularly interesting, and I guess I had the
best relationship with him in this way. I could
always go to him anytime, anywhere. I could walk
into this office and say, I need to talk to you, and
he always made time, and I don't care what he was
doing, and would close his door or take us into
another room in the house, and we'd sit and we'd
talk. That was probably the best thought and
memory I have of him, is being able to do that from a
little bitty on. Oh yeah, that's great.
Is there anything that you want to have in the
archive that's in the back of your mind, or either
one of you?
You mean as far as included in this? Yeah, just, you
know, whatever from the hobbies and things that
Caroline and Bill did together. Well, because of
her arthritis, she wasn't able to do a lot. She did
try fishing, as you can see with him. He loved his
deep-sea fishing.
He was a quail hunter. she didn't get much into
quail hunting and he was a goose and duck hunter but
in his later years he kind of got away from that she
spent more of her time um she was a pink lady at the
hospital and dar and very involved in the christ
episcopal church in eagle lake and daughter of the
king and on the altar guild and that sort of thing. I
know at one point in time they tried to get into
golf, but they both decided that it took the
majority of your day to play around the golf and
that just wasn't feasible particularly for him.
So she was very, very active then from a social
standpoint in organizations.
Yeah. And you said she was a pink lady for how many
years? Oh, a number of years at the hospital in
Eagle Lake. And then she also volunteered over at
the nursing home, too, in Eagle Lake for quite some
time. Okay. Was she going to Eagle Lake because
there weren't those facilities here? Right.
and their church was in Eagle Lake so we knew quite a
few people in Eagle Lake so I think that was the
natural place to go she um she also is um if she's
been involved in the Magnolia Homes tour in
Columbus she has a lot of friends in Columbus they
both did now um Jack Wendt and her were friends for a
long time is that right Jack went and my dad were
friends. Well, all of them have known each other
for years. Yes. And since daddy has passed away,
Jack's kind of taken mother under his wing. So he
calls and he checks on her and calls me and we chat
about her. But yes, very, very good old friends.
Now, did they work together in the rice industry on
legislating even water issues? I don't think
directly. I'm not real sure. I don't think
directly. I think it was more... Information
gathering, if you will. They would both come to
each other when they needed to know about this,
that, or the other. Networking. Yes, thanks.
That's the word. Right. How did he meet Steve
Ballas? My father or Jack? Your father. it might
have been through that rice legislative group
probably and then daddy served on the hospital
board a lot and of course steve has the pharmacy
over there but he's involved with the hospital so
it might have been through that area too right and
steve farms rice for some time did
with his hunting and fishing did he Do that pretty
much internationally? I know you went to
Australia and you were talking about fishing, but
did he hunt around the world or? No. Pretty much in
Texas? Just locally, uh huh.
Yeah. You said that they had both the Richmond
Irrigation, is it Richmond Irrigation District
or? Irrigation Company. It was Richmond
Irrigation Company at the time. But he sold that
early on then? Right. It just kept the Garwood
Irrigation Company. Right. So the two canal
systems weren't connected or anything like that?
Right. I think one's on the Brazos and the other one
was on the Colorado.
Now, one of the things that you mentioned was
profit sharing. The profit sharing plan and the
credit union. Right. I'll let Ralph speak to that.
Well, he thought a lot of his employees, and what he
wanted to always make sure of is, and he even noted
that when he sold the Garwood Irrigation Company
to LCRA, that you're going to take all the
employees and they'll all have a job. And that was
one of his key points. If you didn't do that, he
wasn't going to sell the company, period. So he
wanted to make sure that people were taken care of,
not only the rice farmers that are in the area, but
he wanted to make sure the employees that have been
working with him for years... And our employee
base here, you know, we've had people, we had one
guy retire that was here for 50 years. So everyone
here, in fact, right now, I mean, I've got probably
no one, well, maybe one person less than about five
years. Everybody is 10, 15, 20, 25 years. But he was
involved with the employees and wanted to help
them out as much as possible. So even in his
companies, he had a profit-sharing plan where the
employees don't contribute anything. It's
basically on the profit of the companies. If the
company makes profit, then he contributes X
amount to each person's account that works for him
in the profit-sharing plan. Plus, he was
instrumental in The companies here have a credit
union called a layer interest credit union where
you don't see any very many credit unions in this
area. People were having a hard time borrowing
money from banking institutions at the time, so
they established in 1955 a credit union where the
employees could actually be a member, save money
out of their paychecks, and also come and borrow
money. And we loan from incidentals, washers and
dryers, all the way to cars, all the way to making
house notes now. So it's an employee-owned credit
union, and it's run by the employees, all
volunteers. So we have a board of directors, he he
was instrumental in getting all that phase
accomplished for the employees too and it does
help because garwood doesn't have a bank either so
that's kind of like having a bank in town too but
it's basically for the employees of the layer
interests so you would classify him as really a
people-oriented type person then that's right
very compassionate in fact i got one of his cards
and i've always kept it this is one of his cards And
this is what he had put on the back. When did he have
those made? I was thinking about that yesterday.
He had me make those, I don't know when, it's been
years. Really?
Interesting, yeah. Yeah, he was a real...
a giving man he the the people in garwood as far as
the fire department the ambulance service i mean
he donated a lot towards that uh to keep the
ambulance service for the whole community He was
really involved with the fire department as far as
making sure that this area was taken care of and
still is as of today. He wants that to continue. He
felt that it's real important to have a local
ambulance service here because it's 20 miles from
any town you go to. And he felt that if we could have
the volunteers here, you can get help a lot faster
by having your own ambulance service and own fire
department. He contributed heavily to that and,
you know, that was really important to him. In
fact, they just dedicated their little building
downtown to him not long ago. But there was another
part of him, too. When was it, Ralph, that some of
the people in the community, we were having a very,
very cold winter and they weren't capable of
paying their electric bills. Remember that?
Well, that and even in the summertime because it
was that heat wave. It was a heat wave. That's what
it was. That we had here that it was over 100 degrees
for, I don't know, a couple of weeks in a row. And
there were a lot of people in town that were on the
poverty end. And he sent word to them to keep your
air conditions and your fans on. And if you
couldn't pay your bill to bring them up to him and
he'd help them out. And he did. He ended up helping a
lot of people in town that could not allow the
elderly, and that's what he was looking for, that
needed the air conditioning and all and the
heating in the wintertime, to bring him the bill
and he'd help you out. And he did, he paid their
electric bills, he paid their heating bills.
No questions asked, he just did it. And there were a
lot of people in the community that received that
help, there were really, I mean, gratitude for
that. Oh, yeah. Oh, I bet so. That's very good. And
what about their church involvement? Was that
pretty extensive also? Yes, I mean, they always
went to Christ Episcopal Church in Eagle Lake. And
as I told you about my mother's involvement, he
wasn't so involved. I think he did sit on the vestry
a couple of times in his younger years. But, I mean,
it was an every Sunday sort of deal. Yeah, they were
involved.
Jane? I don't know what else to cover.
Is this history, is that going to be written or is
that something that can be placed in the archive?
No, it's nothing that's actually finished.
Nancy, we could maybe take parts of this and give it
to you. A lot of it's technical information in
there, too. Right. That wouldn't be of interest to
you, really. And I think from all these lines and
stuff going through here, I think he was editing it
and...
gonna like he's got a question mark here and so i
just have to probably go through it and gather for
you what might you know be of interest sort of a
little history yeah i think that's what you're
looking for that's right i mean this is what we're
really documenting is okay all right that's what
we're after okay anything else all right is there
anything else that y'all want to add
Well, my mother went to Greenbrier College. You
never asked me where she went to college.
Are
we missing anything? I'm sitting back trying to
think.
I suppose if we think of something we can Oh, yeah.
Like I said, you'll have an opportunity to get this
back and you can add some things to it if you want to
or whatever. One thing I think that people should
know is my father had an incredible sense of humor
and was great at playing jokes on people. Okay. And
you saw that. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he did do that. And he
was... Very quick, very clever.
and so he had a lot of fun I can there are some funny
stories of pranks he pulled on people but what was
the best one he pulled
the best one he pulled was when he he
had these lawyers from Houston coming out to the
house and both of them their last names were
Hutchison both of well no Hutchison and Grundy I
believe anyway they were coming out to go hunting
and they had never been out to our house before the
one that you've been to um
and so he said now he gave them directions and he
said now listen you better turn in you better get it
right the first time because we have some
neighbors and they don't like being bothered at
night and they might shoot at you. And so they were,
they were coming, I would say they got to the house
about eight or so at night. And so daddy could see
their car coming up the gravel road. So he turned
all the lights out in the whole house
and he got up on that, the roof, the deck up there
with a shotgun and so when they pulled up he started
screaming and yelling at them and wanting to know
who they were and shooting his gun up in the air and
they were flying under the car and finally he
couldn't quit laughing long enough to carry it on
and he said come on guys it's me just playing a joke
on you
I would expect that he probably picked up a lot of
that at A&M where he started pulling pranks at A&M.
Probably. Those guys were famous for all of that.
And that was real entertaining for his children.
Oh, I bet it was. I bet so. What do you think was his
most significant
Well, before I answer that, the other thing I
wanted to tell you that I just remembered is he and
my mother for many, many years, if you recall
correctly, the state of Texas was predominantly
democratic. and they were very involved with the
grassroots Republican Party and worked very hard
and went to many conventions and were very
dedicated in their effort there so I wanted to tell
you that his greatest accomplishment
I don't know in his mind I think it was selling the
irrigation company the way he did and with the
contract that he had behind it and for the amount of
money that he got for it only because he and LCRA had
been at odds for a number of years and then to
finally come together and both get what they
wanted. Wouldn't you say that was... I think that
was probably the most, even for the state of Texas,
where the water's concerned. They both felt that
they were in a win-win situation. Right. He took
care of the farmers in the surrounding
communities by the contract that he has with LCRA
to supply water for this system at least for the
next 10 years. He froze the rates on the water for
five years so the farmers could manhandle and help
them. He froze the rates for five years in his
contract. And he even he looked after the people
here at that point when he was selling that company
and as far as there were two things that he wanted to
make sure were taken care of in that contract when
he sold it he was going to take care of the farmers in
the community he was going to take care of the
employees and that was the two main concerns in
either or if they did not take care of any of those he
wouldn't sell it so it wasn't really i mean he did
get a lot of money for it don't get me wrong but it
wasn't just dollars that that made him do what he
did.
Is it okay to talk about his sister? Sure. I
understand they were fairly close, is that right?
Yes.
I guess from, was there an estate then that the two
of them had from, is it W.K. then, right? Right. Is
that the way he left that to him? Yes, to the two of
them. Did they work pretty close over the years or
did Bill pretty much just run everything? Bill ran
everything. She was happy just to... She stayed at
Eagle Pass and he ran everything from her part of
the family. And we still do to this day. Right. It's
all still run through here. She's still in Eagle
Pass.
She just didn't have an interest in... No, I guess
not, and her husband wanted to be in Eagle Pass and
do ranching there, and it was, I guess,
geographically not, she wasn't capable of
staying really that involved. She has a family
also, right? Yes, she has three sons. Are they
going into ranching also? uh one of them sort of
hits and misses at ranching they have two ranches
and he he kind of plays around with one and then his
father plays around with the other Then they have a
younger, the youngest is in California, and he is
in the music recording business in some fashion.
And then the middle son is in Arizona, and he was
involved in computers. Do you know what he's
doing? I don't know what he's doing now, but he was
something in the computer industry at one time.
So you never really got to know her that close since
she was out in Eagle Pass? Oh yes, oh yes. I know her
very well. I talk to her sometimes twice a day.
Nancy knows her probably, she's closer to her than
any of the other brothers and sisters. Yeah, she
calls Nancy quite a bit. to find out, too, what's
going on here. They come to our annual meetings,
but basically, as far as I'm concerned in this area
here, we see them like once a year because they're
stockholders. I don't know if they visited a lot in
the younger years. No, a couple of times a year,
probably. She's very into gardening, though. She
loves flowers. And her yard is just gorgeous. She
sends me pictures all the time of all the flowers
and stuff that she's growing. That's her thing.
And her mother was very into gardening,
especially roses. And so I think she gets that from
her mother. And she had 100% trust in Bill, so she
let him handle everything. I would say that speaks
a lot. Not too many people will do that in a court.
Well, my father, and I've had many people tell me
this, was probably one of the fairest, most honest
men they knew. And he was, in my personal opinion,
overboard in his fairness to her. Not that I
dislike her, but he was the type of person he would
rather be overly so than have someone come back to
him and go, well, now, what's this or that? So he
always took great care, don't you think, Ralph, in
seeing that everything was on the up and up and fair
and square. But did they communicate back and
forth pretty regular then, even though they were
only here a couple of times a year? Oh, yes. Mm-hmm.
All the time, by phone. By telephone. He'd, she'd
always call. And he called her.
Did, did they ever talk about growing up together,
or?
About growing up together? Mm-hmm. As kids, and
what they did, and things like that? Well, a little
bit, I guess. He'd pull, well he was pulling pranks
on her when she was dating. Putting potatoes in
exhaust pipes and dates exhaust pipes and I
remember when he was little I don't know what
prompted her to do this but she shaved off his
eyebrows so he had to go around without any
eyebrows for a while. So I guess they had a typical
childhood yeah that's great they sound like well
they're kind of mischievous oh yeah brothers and
sisters that got along but at the time they didn't
you know how it goes well everybody has that oh and
then they did he and a friend of his somehow wired up
her toilet i remember him telling me that and then
they would do something when she'd go to the
bathroom and she'd fly and I guess she had a
girlfriend over too I guess and it would shock them
every time they tried to go to the restroom they
wired up the commode seat yeah he did tell me that
uh-huh in fact that's why he got into engineering
could be
mm-hmm what if now what about your uh your granddad
um Did you know him for quite a while then? Oh yes, I
was very close to him. He was, well he had a great
sense of humor, but he was also a very serious
person. He loved to travel. He was very into
genealogy and was putting all that together, and I
still have that stuff that I need to go to work on. He
was diabetic. He was a very disciplined man
because he was insulin dependent and had to watch
his diet and had to exercise. So he was disciplined
and sort of regimented, if you will. But he didn't
let it bother him. He went ahead and did everything
he always wanted to do. There were greenhouses
there. Didn't he grow like the greenhouses or was
it your grandmother? Well, all the greenhouses
were hers. But I do know that he decided, because of
the diet that he was on and his travels, he got real
into papayas and mangoes. So he was going to figure
out how to grow them here. And actually he did
accomplish it. He had these huge things that had
plastic and would cover them. He actually
successfully grew mangoes and papayas.
Very interesting. Anything he wanted to do, he was
going to do it. And that was basically my dad's
philosophy too. If they wanted to do it, they were
going to find a way to get it done. That's just the
way they were. Spent a lot of time thinking about
it. Mm-hmm. Oh, my father didn't sleep most of the
time because there was something on his mind that
he was going to figure out. He wasn't going to ever
make a real hasty decision. If you came to him, he
thought it through before. If it was something
important, He thought it well through before he
ever made the decision to do it. Probably why
you're successful at what you're doing. Right.
And he did have a tractor dealership here back in
the 80s. The fact right here where we're sitting,
there were tractors and combines. We had the
International and Case dealership here. And back
then, Times were hard, and hardly any new
equipment was selling, and he decided to get out of
the business. And he did right at, whenever he
decided he did it at the right time, because right
after that, the bottom fell out of all of the market
for new tractors and combines and all. He did it
just at the right time. And that was back in the
early 80s. I think we got out of that in about 1983.
Now, what about your grandmother? You said she was
really heavily involved in gardening? Yes, and
she was a big DAR person. I can't remember that
much. She traveled quite a bit with him. They both
were quite involved in the Methodist Church here
locally. In fact, it's now called the Laram
Memorial. Laram Memorial United Methodist
Church. And what was her name?
Dottie or Dorothy, Dorothy Ann.
Now what about your mother's parents?
They were from Ohio. He was an engineer for the
railroads and so he was gone an awful lot. And they
moved to Weston, West Virginia, which is where my
mother was born. And her mother had rheumatoid
arthritis. And in fact, was bedridden with it.
most of her life and she developed uh I guess a
bladder infection and they were sulfur drugs were
just new and out and they put her on sulfur drugs but
back then they didn't know to tell them to drink a
lot of water so she passed away of uremic poisoning
she had a sister an older sister um who did marry and
Was she a Latin teacher? She was very bright. But
she was asphyxiated by a gas heater, young in her
marriage, in the bathroom. And she didn't have any
children. So then her father moved
to Circleville, I guess. And they had a little farm
up there and then he finally ended up moving down
here with us and staying here for a while prior to
his death. So you got to know him pretty good. I did.
One of his favorite tricks to do to my mother is
evidently working around all these railroad type
guys. When they'd run into snakes, they'd pick up
these snakes and twirl them in the air and pop their
heads off. My dad used to do that. And so his
favorite thing to do to her is when she was having
her bridge club in or her DAR ladies over, he'd go
and pop the head.